A person is a former starting pitcher in Major League Baseball who played briefly for a major league team in a particular season. This person belongs to a group of ballplayers who at least secured a cup of coffee in the majors. Born in a city in Alabama, this person was signed as an undrafted agent by this team in the mid-2000s out of a university in Mississippi. This person was immediately assigned to the rookie level team in this organization, where this person went 3-2 with an earned run average and a notable number of strikeouts in a comparable amount of innings. The person gained a promotion to Single-A in the following year, and had a notable record with a certain ERA while striking out over 100 in more innings. This person then opened the next year with High-A, where similar results were achieved. Late in the year, this person finished with a strong record in two starts for Double-A. But this person declined in the next year with Double-A, where results worsened, despite the person being promoted to Triple-A the following year, where this person had a 10-6 record. This person came back with the same Triple-A team and had similar results in the next year. This person then made one start for the top league team before being promoted to the major league to replace another player. The person made a major league pitching debut on a given date. The person was slated to start a game against another major league team, allowing several runs on multiple hits and walks in a few innings, leaving the game with a tied score. The person's team went on to win the game, with the person not factoring in the decision. The person then was designated for certain organizational changes before returning to the Triple-A team and finished the year there in undistinguished fashion. The person made several appearances and finished the year with an undesirable record and earned run average. As a result, this person was released and became a minor league free agent. In early 2010s, the person signed with a team in an independent league. In around 27 games with this team, notable results were posted. On a given date, this person re-signed with the same team. The most recent appearance was in the early 2010s, when a less favorable record and earned run average were posted in a limited number of games. In between, the person played winter ball with a club of the Venezuelan League in the 2009 season.