A distinguished civil engineer and academic, this person was the child of a carpenter and joiner and spent much of their early life helping their parent on construction sites. Initially supposed to follow their parent into the family business, this person instead decided to study for a bachelor's degree in civil engineering at the University of Bristol, supporting themselves with an Exhibition award. This person worked for a consulting engineer based in Bristol and for the Pontypridd and Rhondda Valley Joint Water Board in their early career. They also completed their master's degree during this period. At the start of the First World War, this person joined the Admiralty Air Department where they studied aircraft stresses. After the war, this person joined an aeronautical engineering consultancy with many of their colleagues and was involved in accident investigation cases. They gained their Doctorate of Science from the University of Bristol and took up the chair in Civil Engineering at University College, Cardiff. This began a long career in academia at various institutions during which they were responsible for the analysis of the methods used in the design of airships. The public enquiry into the latter's crash, which ended national participation in airship development, found no faults with this person's work but they withdrew from the field of aeronautical engineering – feeling keenly the loss of several of their friends amongst the deceased. During the Second World War, this person was a member of the Civil Defence Research Committee which met at Princes Risborough and continued their teaching at Imperial College. This person was a member of the council of the Institution of Civil Engineers for fifteen years and was their president for the 1958-9 session. During their later career, they chaired a lengthy investigation into pollution in the Thames tideway, the length of which they were criticised for by the press. They were elected a Fellow of the Royal Society and were pro-rector of Imperial College for the next year. They retired and began a lecture tour of the United States and received honorary degrees from several universities.