An individual is an American businessperson and diplomat. This individual is chairman of an aerospace corporation and a member of the boards of several institutions, including a technical institute, a scientific organization, and various associations. This individual and their partner own a property in the United States, recognized by a travel publication as a top accommodation globally. They have served as the interim president of a business school. At one point, this individual was a U.S. Ambassador to a European country. Previously, this individual was a senior advisor to a U.S. mission to an international entity, a fellow teaching leadership at an academic institution, CEO of a management body, deputy administrator of an aviation authority, and vice chairman of an aviation board. They also served on the boards of various organizations, schools, and corporations. This individual was the founding chairman of a bank and chaired numerous working groups and advisory commissions. They were a partner in a legal firm and, early in their career, held executive roles in Fortune 500 companies. This individual was president of a women's organization. As a member of an initiative involving the U.S. and another country, this individual founded a program to mentor women entrepreneurs. They are members of leadership organizations and frequently participate in international forums. In their community, this individual was chairman of councils and clubs. They were the first female candidate of a political party for governor of a U.S. state. This individual earned multiple degrees at a university, and honorary doctorates have been awarded by several universities. A college at a university was named for them and their partner. They have received awards for public service and corporate citizenship. They received a medal from a technical institute's president. An instrument-rated pilot, this individual was the first civilian woman to land on an aircraft carrier. They climbed a mountain in Africa and cycled a distance around a European country while serving as ambassador. They have trained as an astronaut and were a backup participant for a mission to a space station.