A cyclist (born mid-20th century) is a former professional cyclist who became a bicycle accident consultant. This individual was a member of two national Olympic cycling teams and was only among the first few citizens from their country to compete and finish the Tour de France. For over the last several decades, this individual has served as a consultant and expert witness to attorneys who represent parties involved in bicycle accident litigation. This cyclist began their competitive cycling career in their early teens. During their career as both a top amateur and professional cyclist, this individual competed in many countries throughout the world. They were a member of the Olympic Team in 1980, but was not able to participate due to the national participation in the 1980 Summer Olympics boycott. This cyclist was also a member of the 1984 Olympic cycling team. In 1980, this individual received a Congressional Gold Medal at a significant event due to the 1980 Olympic Boycott. The Congressional Gold Medal is the highest civilian honor bestowed by Congress, and this corrective measure was considered long overdue given the sacrifice by the Olympic team. The medals awarded to members of the 1980 team hold the same standing as the ones awarded to luminaries in American history. In 1984 this cyclist won the country's top cycling stage race, riding for a prominent racing team. The following year, this cyclist became just among the first few from their nation to compete and finish the Tour de France, achieving a modest placement, in addition to finishing with high standing in another significant race that year. In the late 20th century, this individual was inducted into prestigious sporting halls of fame as part of the acclaimed Cycling Team that competed internationally. From the mid to late 1980s, this cyclist competed on professional cycling teams. In 1985, this individual rode with notable international cyclists on a renowned team. This cyclist built their reputation as a hill climber and sprinter and earned a nickname reflecting speed. After sustaining a serious injury and being advised to retire, this cyclist had an additional successful season before retiring in the late 1980s. Shortly after, this cyclist acted as the technical advisor and technical writer for a pioneering cycling safety video, produced by a notable cycling team. The video was the first of its kind to offer cycling safety tips and techniques for all levels of cyclists, from serious racers to amateur enthusiasts. Today, this cyclist owns and operates a consulting firm. The company provides expert witness services to attorneys, municipalities, government agencies, manufacturers, and insurance companies that are involved in bicycle accident litigation.