A civil engineer (born in the mid-19th century and passed away in the early 20th century) was particularly associated with harbour works in various regions during the early years of the 20th century. The engineer first came to prominence in the early 1900s when collaborating on designs for significant river training works; one colleague was consulting engineer and this individual was chief engineer. The project reclaimed a substantial amount of land behind a wall of rubble several miles long and wide. At the start of the First World War in 1914, this engineer was working overseas, until called to support a military expeditionary force with advice on improving shipping channels into a port. After many delays, they were finally able to design and supervise construction of a line of wharves complete with cranes, sheds, roads, and railway lines. In the late 1910s, they were promoted to a senior military rank and were knighted. However, they had already distanced themselves from compatriots by a reputation for egotism and outspokenness, and jealousy of their enormous salary. A military counterpart wrote that this engineer: "irritated everyone who came across them or worked for them". Later, they authored a critical book about the military campaign and their own part in turning it around. They were a member of the Indian Munitions Board from the late 1910s. In 1920, working with a colleague in a firm renamed to include the engineer's name, they were invited to investigate a potential land reclamation project. The costs of the huge and ambitious scheme, and the time it would take to complete, soon escalated out of control, and a subsequent enquiry blamed the engineer (the project became known as a folly, after a governor at the time). At the same time, they were alleged to have “criticised and condemned the proposals of another engineer and had offered their services uninvited” – an action which saw them expelled from a prestigious engineering institution. This engineer's later career was largely focused overseas, notably in another country where they prepared an influential report on the ports at the request of the government. Their ignominious departure from engineering circles in one country meant that their name had to be deleted from the company name in the early 1920s. A relative of this engineer was a pioneer in transport planning.