A public health official is an American public health physician who was among the first to manage a bioterrorism incident in the United States. This individual has been the Director of a large County Health Department since the early 1990s and is the Chair of the Department of Preventive Medicine at a prominent College of Osteopathic Medicine. During this person's tenure as a County Health Director, they played a crucial role in responding to bioterrorism risks during an anthrax incident at a media company in a southeastern state. In early October 2001, a photo editor for the supermarket tabloid publishing company was admitted to a major Medical Center, where an initial diagnosis of possible anthrax was made by the attending physician. Multiple tests were rapidly conducted by county and state labs, and ultimately by a leading national health agency; meanwhile, the individual's condition worsened, and they died a few days later. Shortly after, this public health official quarantined the company's building following this suspicious death, citing anthrax as the cause even though some federal and state officials disagreed. This person helped start a community health program, where nurses provide in-home counseling to pregnant women and continued health guidance after birth. They also helped create an AIDS Program, which provides clinical care, dental care, and housing assistance to people with HIV/AIDS. This public health official has received numerous awards in recognition of contributions to the fields of public health and preventive medicine. In the 2000s, this individual was recognized for their contributions to the field of medicine and honored by several organizations and a United States Representative. A national health library included this person in an exhibit celebrating America’s Women Physicians. A health association also honored this person by profiling them in a publication celebrating public health leaders from across the United States. In the early 2000s, a national association of health officials honored this public health official with an award. Around that time, a university recognized this person as an Outstanding Woman in Public Health.