A person (b. mid-20th century in Europe) is a distinguished painter and artist with strong ties to a particular European region. This person was born in the 20th century in Europe, and with this person's family, moved many times between two European countries, before finally settling in a specific region within one of these countries where this person now lives and works. This individual claims to be distantly related to a famous actress, through the mother. This person is a descendant of a 19th-century artist. In their youth, this person started studying at a prestigious art college in a capital city, and after graduation, moved to another major city. During their time there, this individual illustrated an animated television series for a major broadcaster, and also produced illustrations for various publications. Upon returning to the capital city, this person took jobs in entertainment, and around the mid-20th century, opened their first artistic exhibition there. This person married in the mid-20th century and had two children. During the latter half of the 20th century, this artist got to know a notable musician and had a personal relationship with him. This individual had another personal relationship with a local person during a stay with the children in an island region; upon returning, discovered the partner was also having a personal relationship, which was accepted. By the early 21st century, the partner had contracted a serious illness. A prolific painter, this individual works with oil and cloth, but is most associated with watercolours. For over a decade, this person has been dedicated to the Yellow Man project, a large collection of works featuring a distinctive figure. In the 2000s, this artist donated a collection of many works including tapestries, wall hangings, and sketches to the state, now on permanent display in various locations in the country. During this artist’s career several books and books of prints of this person's paintings have been illustrated and published. In the 2010s, at an advanced age, this person published a memoir.