A Congressman (April 29, 1923 – February 18, 1998) was a Democratic politician from El Paso, Texas, who served in the Texas House of Representatives from the mid-1950s and in the U.S. House of Representatives during the late 20th century. Born in El Paso, Texas, this person graduated from primary school, high school, and a military training camp in San Antonio, Texas. Subsequently, in the early 1940s, this person attended a local college, then known by a previous name. After the second year of college, this person began World War II service in the United States Marine Corps as a rifleman and interpreter in the Pacific Theater. As a result of injuries suffered, this person was awarded the Purple Heart. Returning to Texas after the war, this person received a bachelor's degree and a J.D. from a university in Austin, Texas, and was admitted to the Texas state bar in the late 1940s to begin a legal career. This person served two-year terms in the Texas House of Representatives, having been elected in the 1950s. This person was the El Paso County Democratic chairman in the early 1960s. Elected to Congress as part of a national Democratic surge linked to a U.S. President's victory, this person, who received more votes than the President did in the congressional district, played a part by unseating a freshman Republican. During the first term, this Congressman represented a large district stretching from El Paso to the Permian Basin—a distance over 42,000 square miles. However, after Texas' congressional map was redrawn, the district was cut down to El Paso and a few inner-ring suburbs. Reelected multiple times from this district with almost no difficulty, this person developed a reputation as a moderate Democrat. Also chaired a Democratic organization within the party that distributed information from the leadership relevant to pending votes. Having a military base in the congressional district made this person a natural choice for a place on the House Armed Services Committee. There, important roles, including chairing a subcommittee and contributing to the reorganization of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, were assumed. Also, service on other committees occurred. Choosing not to run again in the early 1980s, this Congressman returned to El Paso to resume a law practice. This person was married twice. The first marriage in the late 1940s produced three sons. After the first spouse's death in the early 1970s, this person married again in the early 1970s, with the second marriage producing one daughter, two sons, and one step-son. This person died in 1998. The ashes are interred at a national cemetery in Arlington, Virginia, near a notable memorial.