A person (born in the 1930s, Montreal, Quebec) is a Canadian pianist. This person made their professional debut at a young age, with a national broadcasting corporation. As a teenager, and holding a scholarship from a local conservatoire, this person met a renowned pianist who was sufficiently impressed to take them on as a student. In the early 1960s, this person made their American debut at a famous concert hall. That same time period, this person performed a well-known Piano Concerto with a local symphony under a noteworthy conductor, in which this person was praised for their "passion and power" and "placid sensitivity". Since such an exciting US debut in New York, this person has captivated audiences and critics alike both in North America and abroad. This person has been the soloist with many major orchestras, including various symphonies and in Europe with prestigious orchestras. This person later returned to this iconic concert hall in the mid and late 1960s. The following years, this person's recording of a notable Sonata for Viola and Piano was nominated for a prestigious award. Other nominees include renowned musicians. This person has made several tours of Russia, South America, and Japan. Their artistry has triumphed in key cities of Europe including Paris, London, Vienna, Brussels, and Amsterdam. In North America their record is equally impressive, with recitals and orchestral engagements in major cities such as New York and Chicago. A notable publication, reviewing this person's recording, lauded them as "a pianist of uncommon ability" with a "range of colour...which straightaway marks them out from so many pianists". This person made their debut in Boston in the late 1960s for a concert series, and returned a couple of years later. They were the first Canadian artist to win a prize at prestigious international music competitions. In the summer of the mid-1970s, this person was the featured piano teacher at a notable music camp. Located in a beautiful park area in the heart of a geographical region, this camp for youth boasted amazing settings and a relocated concert hall pavilion. This person performed on stage that summer at the music camp to a sold-out audience. This person was well-liked by staff and students and was known for their charming personality. A founding member of a music quartet, this person was Professor Emeritus of piano performance at a university in Ontario until the late 2000s.