Background: There is a lack of consensus about whether the initial imaging method for individuals with suspected health issues should be advanced imaging techniques or basic imaging techniques. Methods: In this study, we randomly assigned individuals who presented with suspected health issues to undergo initial diagnostic imaging performed by a healthcare provider, imaging performed by a specialist, or advanced imaging. Subsequent management, including additional imaging, was at the discretion of the healthcare provider. We compared the three groups with respect to the 30-day incidence of high-risk diagnoses with complications that could be related to missed or delayed diagnosis and the 6-month cumulative exposure to imaging. Secondary outcomes were serious adverse events, related serious adverse events (deemed attributable to study participation), pain (assessed on an 11-point visual-analog scale, with higher scores indicating more severe pain), return visits, hospitalizations, and diagnostic accuracy. Results: A total of 2759 individuals underwent randomization: 908 to healthcare provider imaging, 893 to specialist imaging, and 958 to advanced imaging. The incidence of high-risk diagnoses with complications in the first 30 days was low (0.4%) and did not vary according to imaging method. The mean 6-month cumulative exposure to imaging was significantly lower in the basic imaging groups than in the advanced imaging group (p < 0.001). Serious adverse events occurred in 12.4% of the individuals assigned to healthcare provider imaging, 10.8% of those assigned to specialist imaging, and 11.2% of those assigned to advanced imaging (p = 0.50). Related adverse events were infrequent (incidence, 0.4%) and similar across groups. By 7 days, the average pain score was 2.0 in each group (p = 0.84). Return visits, hospitalizations, and diagnostic accuracy did not differ significantly among the groups. Conclusions: Initial basic imaging was associated with lower cumulative exposure to imaging than initial advanced imaging, without significant differences in high-risk diagnoses with complications, serious adverse events, pain scores, return visits, or hospitalizations.