Carlos Martinez is a retired professional male tennis player from a country in Latin America. He prefers playing on clay courts, especially with heavy spin tactics, and is known for his aggressive baseline play style. Born in the Western Hemisphere, he picked up his first ATP win in 2001. In 2000, he made the third round in Roland Garros, where he defeated Tommy Robredo. He achieved a major ATP ranking by moving up into the higher rankings of ATP and finishing in the higher category of rankings in the 2000s.

In 2001, he won three challenger events. Martinez advanced to his first quarter-final in Istanbul and made his first final on a hard court in Madrid. He posted a win against Andre Agassi in the Davis Cup, and in 2004, he lost to Jürgen Melzer in Shanghai. Martinez reached the final in Marseille and Lisbon, and made it to the semi-final in Barcelona.

In 2002, he lost to Carlos Moya. Carlos won his first ATP title in Hamburg in 2006, and his second career title came at the 2008 Estoril Open. Martinez lost the final in Vienna in 2007 and reached the final in Valencia. He had match points against Fernando Gonzalez in the Paris final and narrowly lost to Jim Courier in a major tournament's second round.

Throughout his career, Carlos achieved numerous notable victories. He defeated Ivan Ljubicic in 2005, Fernando Verdasco in November, Marin Cilic in Beijing in 2006, Lleyton Hewitt in Madrid, Gael Monfils in Buenos Aires, Joao Sousa in Stockholm, and David Ferrer in Turin. He also defeated Pablo Cuevas in a final in Berlin, James Blake in Zurich, and Juan Ignacio Chela in Monte Carlo.

Carlos announced his retirement in the late 2000s, in his early thirties. Later, he made it to the third round at the 2007 US Open, defeating Stanislas Wawrinka in Prague, Robin Soderling in Madrid, Tommy Haas in Lyon, and Jo-Wilfried Tsonga at the 2011 US Open. He also defeated Nicolas Kiefer in Paris and was victorious over Tomas Berdych at Roland Garros, but he suffered losses to Rafael Nadal in Oslo and Patrick Rafter in Munich.