Masaharu Morimoto (born May 26, 1955, in Hiroshima, Japan) is a Japanese chef, best known as an Iron Chef on the Japanese TV cooking show Iron Chef and its spinoff Iron Chef America. He is also known for his unique style of presenting food. Morimoto received practical training in sushi and traditional Kaiseki cuisine in Hiroshima, and opened his own restaurant in that city in 1980. Influenced by Western cooking styles, he decided to sell his restaurant in 1985 to travel around the United States. His travels further influenced his fusion style of cuisine. He established himself in New York City and worked in some of Manhattan's prestigious restaurants, including the dining area for Sony Corporation's executive staff and visiting VIPs, the Sony Club, where he was executive chef, and at the exclusive Japanese restaurant Nobu, where he was head chef. While at Nobu he got his start on the Iron Chef television show. Several months after the weekly run of Iron Chef ended in 1999, he left Nobu, eventually opening his own Morimoto restaurant in Philadelphia in 2001. He now has a Morimoto restaurant in Chelsea in New York City. For this New York City restaurant it has architecturally exposed concrete, a signature element of Tadao Ando’s work, is dramatically visible in a series. Alongside Tadao Ando and collaboration with Goto Design Group, the structural engineers who took on this project was Leslie E. Robertson Associates. Mr. Morimoto also has restaurants in Mumbai and New Delhi, called \"Wasabi\" and another Morimoto in Boca Raton, Florida. He also partnered with businessmen Paul Ardaji, Jr., and Paul Ardaji, Sr., through Ardaji Restaurant Ventures, LLC in an Asian bistro venture called Pauli Moto's. According to news account, the relationship between the Ardajis and the Iron Chef broke down when the Ardajis could not come up with the promised $3.3 million necessary to continue the partnership. Morimoto also owns Morimoto XEX in Tokyo that has a Teppanyaki and a sushi floor. Morimoto XEX received a Michelin star in the 2008 Tokyo Michelin Guide. Morimoto currently appears as an Iron Chef in Iron Chef America, a spinoff from the original Japanese Iron Chef series. Chef Morimoto has also developed a line of specialty beers in collaboration with Rogue Ales of Newport, Oregon, consisting of the Imperial Pilsner, Soba Ale, and Black Obi Soba Ale. In 2010, Masaharu Morimoto opened two additional Morimoto restaurants. In July 2010, he opened a Napa Valley location. In October 2010, a Waikiki, Hawaii, location. In October 2013, Morimoto opened the Asian fusion restaurant Bisutoro in New York's Tribeca neighborhood. In September 2015, Morimoto opened the Pan-Asian restaurant Morimoto Asia at Disney Springs in Walt Disney World in Florida. In April 2016, Morimoto opened the restaurant Momosan Ramen & Sake on Lexington Ave. in New York City.