Thomas Stuart Price \"Tom\" Perriello (born October 9, 1974) is an American attorney, diplomat and Democratic Party politician. He served one term as a U.S. Representative for Virginia's 5th congressional district, serving from 2009 until 2011, was the United States Special Representative for the Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review from 2014 to 2015 and has been the Special Envoy for the African Great Lakes and the Congo-Kinshasa since 2015. Born and raised in Ivy, Virginia, Perriello graduated with a J.D. from Yale University in 2001 and then worked as a Special Advisor to the international prosecutor of the Special Court for Sierra Leone. He then worked for the International Center for Transitional Justice, The Century Foundation and for the National Council of Churches of Christ. He also launched several international and faith-based organizations. Having previously worked as a legislative page in the Virginia House of Delegates, Perriello ran for Virginia's 5th congressional district in the United States House of Representatives in the 2008 elections. He defeated six-term Republican incumbent Virgil Goode by 727 votes out of over 317,000 cast. At the time he served, the district included much of Southside Virginia and stretched north to Charlottesville. A populist Democrat, Perriello was a key ally in Congress of President Barack Obama, and was narrowly defeated in the 2010 election by Republican State Senator Robert Hurt. After leaving office, Perriello served as President and CEO of the Center for American Progress Action Fund and as a Counselor for Policy at Center for American Progress, where he spoke out on issues of immigration reform, voting rights, inequality, and campaign finance reform. In February 2014, he was appointed Special Representative for the Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review, serving until April 2015. In July of that year, he was appointed Special Envoy for the African Great Lakes and the Congo-Kinshasa, succeeding former U.S. Senator Russ Feingold.